Hey everyone!
Before we start the video I just want to give
a BIG thanks to the literal thousands of people
who have signed up for my patreon over the
last couple of days.
You guys are absolutely amazing and I love
you all.
So from now on let’s just say all of my
videos are sponsored by my amazing patrons!
If you’d like to become a patron the link
is down in the description below.
There’s going to be a whole lot more extra
content coming that way in the very near future.
So don’t want to miss out.
Okay, now, let’s talk about this train wreck.
So, I watched The Secrets of Dumbledore (twice)
so you don't have to.
I wasn’t going to watch it, but my morbid
curiosity to see what Rowling had shat out
this time got the better of me.
So I hunted around online for a watchable
video of… through entirely legal means.
And honestly, with the high quality of phone
cameras these days, I expect better from these
things.
Then sat down to watch the movie of which
critics have said:
“A world full of wizards has never felt
less magical”
“A once-promising franchise hits bottom”
“The Secrets of Dumbledore is just trying
to get it over with”
And
“A franchise chore”
Lovely.
And… not at all inaccurate.
Okay, so, full-on spoilers-synopsis ahead.
But honestly…
you’re not missing much.
The movie starts out with a quick scene between
Dumbledore and Grindelwald where Dumbledore
states clearly, for the first time, that he
was in love with Grindelwald.
He repeats this statement later on.
All together this takes up six seconds of
screen time, which has been edited out for
the Chinese release.
Shocker.
We then move on to our purveyor of Fantastic
Beasts, Newt Scamander as he, I think, assists
with the birth of a magical lizard deer called
a qilin.
I say I think, because it was obvious that
the theater doors were open so I could only
make out about half the screen.
So baby qilin is born, then Newt is attacked
by Credence, of being expelled from other
Warner Bros movies fame, and the qilin is
kidnapped.
But luckily another qilin was born.
Twinsies!
What luck.
Meanwhile Jacob, back in full muggle mode
after, kind of being a part of the team at
the end of the second movie, is recruited
by a fabulous witch named Lally, to come back
to the team again.
Even though he’d been on the team the last
time we’d seen him.
But so was Nagini and she just up and disappeared
too.
Oh and apparently this movie only takes place
a year after the first Fantastic Beasts movie,
even though that took place in the 20s and
the final battle between Dumbledore and Grindelwald
is supposed to take place in 1945.
Anyway…
Jacob joins the team and we meet up with the
bunch of misfits, led by Dumbledore who shows
off the fine jewelry that's stopping him from
being able to fight Grindelwald.
That nonsense McMuffin introduced in the last
movie.
And then we find out that there’s a wizarding
world election going on.
Time to elect a new president of the whole
wizarding world.
There’s two candidates.
A woman named Santos and a man named Tao.
Who are… not part of the plot at all, really.
According to dialogue a qilin, which seems
to be pronounced differently outside the movie
but we’ll stick with this for now, had once
been used to pick the next wizarding world
big cheese, because qilins can sense goodness
in people.
That’s what makes them fantastic.
A fantastic beast, if you will.
We’re left to assume that it's been centuries
since they’ve actually done that, but apparently
they’re going back to basics this time around.
Kind of.
We’ll get to it.
Sort of.
So at a big event for the nominees, it's announced
that Grindlewald has been pardoned of all
his past crimes, and so now he can run for
president of the wizarding world too.
And why wouldn’t he?
He has an army of dedicated followers.
But isn’t it up to the qilin to make the
decision?
So, things go south and the team is broken
up into multiple teams, which is always smart,
under the pretense of confusing Grindelwald,
who now has the qilin.
But he kills It and reanimates it so it will
bow to him come time for the election.
Which moves us into the second act, which
I’m not going to describe because it’s
damn well pointless.
The whole of the second act doesn’t need
to happen.
Nothing takes place that really changes things,
other than Credence finding out that he's
not Dumbledore's kid or brother, but he IS
a Dumbledore.
His dad was Dumbledore's brother, Aberforth.
Who was getting it on with some girl in the
village.
But Credence barely exists in this movie so
who the hell cares?
Basically the second act is for action scenes
and lots of slow motion to entertain the kiddies.
And a crab walk.
Seriously, there was like 15 minutes of this
movie that could have been replaced with Zoidburg.
Going into the third act, our group of heroes
are once again sent on a mission, each of
them carrying a copy of Newt's magical briefcase,
one of which contains the living qilin.
This way Grindelwald’s goons won’t know
which briefcase to snatch.
How does Grindelwald know there’s even a
second qilin to begin with?
Magic.
He does a magic thing and sees that there’s
another one.
Or might be another one.
Maybe.
He’s not sure.
So everyone convenes in Bhutan, where the
election will take place.
High-jinx ensues until it's time for the qilin
to pick its person, who ends up being Grindelwald,
of course.
But newt is having none of it.
He says there’s another qilin, the living
one, but he can’t find it so he can’t
prove it.
Because nobody has the briefcase with the
qilin in it.
So the wizards vote and Grindelwald becomes
president.
Which…
This movie is really bad for this.
But it likes to introduce things that have
never once been referenced in HER material
over the last 3 decades.
Where once upon a time you had the Ministry
of Magic, and then the American Congress of
Magic.
Apparently there is an… overlord of magic?
Who is elected to preside over all of wizardkind?
This is very fundamentally important worldbuilding
that you think would have been explored in
depth before now.
I know it’s been vaguely referenced but
we need to know this going into this movie.
I mean in narrative terms they needed an important
title for Grindelwald to try and win.
So SHE just… pulled something out of her
ass?
Nevermind that Grindelwald could organize
his followers into a militia and skip this
Batman V Superman Lex-Luthor-Esque scheme
so complicated that if you look at it the
wrong way it just completely falls apart.
But apparently this needed to be a political
drama.
And a spy thriller.
And a kids movie.
And an adventure movie.
And — right, a Fantastic Beasts movie.
Well, the qilin, as the fantastic mcguffin
of this movie, is… kinda… pointless?
Because in ages past, a qilin would bow before
a collection of candidates — thereby indicating
the most suitable one to become leader.
However, because peering into someone’s
soul is so pedestrian, wizards resorted to
the barbarism of democratic elections instead.
And while they’re still having an election
(not even a secret ballet because reasons),
Grindelwald is also going to bring a qilin
for extra measure.
Even though it’s abundantly clear he has
a strong voter base that is growing by the
minute.
Not only based on dialogue in the previous
two installments, but also indicated by a…
kind of attempted assassination attempt on
him?
Or one of the other candidates by the twinkiest
wizard since before Daniel Radcliffe had chest
hair?
But even then, not really because Lally yeets
the poison out the window anyway.
But bear in mind the qilin’s verdict is
not binding.
Wizards and witches can still cast a vote
for whomever.
So…
there’s a possibility that the qilin could
tell the populace that someone is perfect
for the job, and then they won’t vote for
them anyway?
Does the qilin choose the leader, or do the
people?
This seems only slightly less unnecessarily
complicated than our ‘muggle’ method of
determining the state of conflict and economy
in the world, based on an election in Ohio
every four years.
I’m sorry, is this hard to follow?
Try sitting through a movie in which every
time a plot starts to materialize, there’s
a cut away to a character you had completely
forgotten about.
Anyway, Newt's assistant, the one who had
an obvious crush on him in the first two movies,
shows up with the real briefcase and out comes
the living qilin.
The other one dies for real and the living
one picks a new best leader…
Dumbledore.
Which is… a choice.
Excuse me for moralizing here, but Dumbledore
is not pure of heart.
Dumbledore was fully on board with subjugating
muggles when he was younger, was totally okay
with risking the lives of our Fantastic Beasts
heroes just to distract Grindelwald, and later
on in life would lead Harry Potter to the
slaughter in the war against Voldemort and
then, once Harry kinda died, told him he didn’t
need to go back and could just let his friends
take care of all the fighting from now on.
That, to me, does not describe someone who
is pure of heart.
Back to the story.
Dumbledore refuses and the qilin picks the
woman who was running instead.
Grindelwald is pissed and is about to kill
her, I think, but Credence steps in front
of him.
He says screw it and launches a killing curse
at Credence, but both Dumbledore and Aberforth
launch protection spells, which intersect
with the killing curse and destroy the magical
McMuffin stopping Dumbledore and Grindelwald
from fighting… somehow.
So the gays jump into their own little magical
pocket dimension and have a wand fight for
a few seconds, inching closer together each
time they dodge a spell, and eventually end
up with their hands over each other’s heart.
How sweet.
Dumbledore walks away as Grindelwald asks:
“Who will love you now, Dumbledore?”
Then we leave the magical pocket dimension
and everyone has their wands pointed at Grindelwald,
but he zips away and the movie ends.
There’s a denouement where literally everyone
has coupled up except Dumbeldore, who is now
the sad lonely gay.
Wonderfully positive representation.
It essentially leaves us at exactly the same
place we were at the end of the last movie.
Grindelwald is on the run, our team is no
closer to catching him, still over a decade
from the big final battle between him and
Dumbledore, and two more hours of our lives
lost.
Oh except Aberofroth is going to take in his
abandoned son, Credence, because Credence
is dying now apparently.
And now Dumbledore doesn’t have the magical
jewelry anymore.
Which he shouldn’t have in the first place
because it was just stupid.
So that’s the plot of this…
I hesitate to call it a movie.
It felt more like multiple filler episodes
of a tv show.
Like a network tv show, not even a cable one.
Obviously I’m not a fan, which is kind of
a relief.
Because I don’t even have to pretend not
to like it because Rowling is TERFy trash.
I legitimately don’t like it!
Of course I haven’t been a big fan of anything
she’s written since 2007 so I shouldn’t
really be shocked by this.
To be fair there are some good performances
here, especially from Jude Law and Mads Mickelson,
but as described, the movie has a myriad of
flaws… from bad pacing, meandering direction,
an aimless plot, and no real story progression.
And it’s egregious habit of telling us things
it should be showing us.
Film is a visual medium.
Do not tell me about something that happened
in the long long ago.
SHOW me it happening.
That is, like, one of the first things you
learn in film school.
“Show Don't Tell” is THE code of good
filmmaking.
Any good writer knows this.
Any director worth their damn salt would have
the script rewritten to make this happen.
But oooh we can’t rewrite Joanne’s script.
It’s gospel.
It was sent down from on high, etched in stone
tablets and carried down the mountain by unpaid
house elves.
But the thing that stood out the most to me,
which I don’t know if this was done on purpose
or by mistake, is the complete lack of canonical
coherence.
Not only to HER very own IP which she lately
has lovingly constructed with the help of
lifting details from fanfiction… but specifically
regarding Grindelwald’s real-world inspiration.
Grindelwald, ever since his introduction,
has been seen as the magical world’s equivalent
to Hister.
Fans even jokingly nicknamed him Wizard Hister.
So if you’re following that progression,
this movie shouldn’t have involved any magical
lizard-deer.
(The powers of which are slightly different
than in Chinese mythology.
But hey — when has Rowling ever NOT used
and changed the myths of other cultures for
her own means?)
It should have been a straight up, three-way
election in which Grindelwald secures a plurality
of the votes.
Putting him in power even though the majority
don’t want him there.
Mirroring Hister’s own rise to power in
the 1930s.
Because, the way the movie portrays it, people
are all on board for him being in control
until the deer lizard says otherwise, and
then they change their mind once they know
that he's corrupt.
And sadly, that’s not how elections work.
For instance, Donald Trump’s supporters
didn’t abandon him when they found out about
the horrible things he’d done.
In fact Trump got about 12 million MORE votes
in 2020 than he did in 2016.
A lot of people weren’t turned off by his
authoritarian tendencies, they actively preferred
them.
They wanted a strong-man leader.
And they actively decried any proven instance
of him lying as fake news.
Even when he was caught bald-faced lying on
camera, his supporters actively rejected it.
On some… psychological level they could
not accept truth.
Meanwhile, the wizarding world runs on this
after school special logic where truth and
justice wins over the masses.
Apparently.
Grindelwald actually does fit the Hister and
Trump comparison in one way though, because
he has gained his following by spurring on
a class of people who perceive themselves
to be subjugated: wizards who are sick of
having to hide their wizardness.
Or Arian Germans and the white working class
in real life.
These tyrannical types use these people as
a stepping stone to gain power, and they always
have a scapegoat.
Trump blamed everyone who wasn’t white,
Hister blamed Jews, Roma, gays, the disabled,
and basically everyone who didn’t fit his
idea of ideal human.
And Grindelwald used Muggles.
But there’s a difference.
Wizards actually are kind of subjugated, and
do have to hide..
But by using this deer-lizard, and then having
Grindelwald lose the election, you’re obscuring
the Hister allegory, which has been driving
the interest in Grindelwald as Wizard Hister
since 2007.
But if we start talking about allegory, there’s
another problematic angle.
Since Grindelwald is actually gay, or at least
that’s what we’ve been lead to believe,
we’re kind of in a sticky situation where
two heterosexuals, Rowling and screenwriter
Steve Kloves, are dictating who is a good
gay, and who is a bad gay.
In Rowling’s Wizarding World is seems that
she’s saying that Grindelwald is the bad
gay because he’s rocking the boat.
He’s demanding wizards have the right to
be seen, and stop hiding from muggles.
He’s demanding they be allowed to come out
to the closet, in a way.
Of course he also wants to subjugate, if not
enslave and kill muggles too, because Rowling
doesn’t have a subtle bone in her body.
But his basic argument of “wizards shouldn’t
have to hide” is one that actually reverberates
quite loudly among the queer community she,
and her followers, are currently doing their
best to demonize.
First, she and her followers came for trans
people.
And now, at least her followers, are coming
for gays and lesbians as well.
Claiming that we groom children with queer
YA books, or even mentioning the LGBTQ community
in schools.
Now, Rowling hasn’t said this herself.
But she has retweeted some people who have.
And if you go back a few years her crusade
against trans people began exactly the same
way.
Retweeting TERFs and transphobes long below
vocalizing her own ignorance and hate.
So whose to say the gays aren’t next on
her chopping block?
Rowling is now throwing her lot in with people
who accuse gay men and women who support trans
rights of ‘grooming’ children.
These groups of people are associated with
those who actively feel that any expression
of queerness must be kept away from kids.
Rowling, who once expressed herself as a staunch
ally, is now beginning to side with errant
homophobes.
For no other reason than siding with people
who share her bigoted opinions on trans people.
If Rowling is no longer comfortable throwing
herself into queer spaces, instead taking
social calls with and retweeting homophobic
influencers…
could that be an indication that the cis queer
community she once sided with is now losing
it’s tolerance for transphobia?
There’s a glass-half-full take on this.
That Rowling was procedurally pushed out of
queer-allied spaces because cis-folk (queer
or allies) would not tolerate her rhetoric.
So she HAD to turn to homophobes because nobody
else would tolerate her transphobic hateful
opinions.
But the glass-half-EMPTY takeon this is that
this is one of those reasons why queer people
can be a little bit…
suspicious of allies.
Because Rowling’s compulsive hatred of trans
people is more important to her than her support
of cis-gay people.
That she is willing to compromise her support
for gay people, but unwilling to compromise
her own bigotry toward trans people.
Hating people is simply more significant for
her sense of self than loving people.
So… will she just turn on ANYONE who openly
supports trans people?
Whom she openly accuses of being ‘dangerous
revolutionaries’ out to ‘invade’ and
‘disrupt’ womens’ spaces?
I mean… she HAS been writing a character
who is a dangerous revolutionary who is out
to invade and disrupt wizarding spaces…
However…
while she demonizes the queer character who
calls for revolution, coming out, and an end
to the status quo (albeit in the most extreme
way possible), she does not demonize the other
gay, who actually is a teacher.
Dumbledore.
But it's okay for Dumbledore to be a teacher
because although he WAS in love with Grindelwald,
he is not actively with him.
And she herself has said that after the love
affair ended he became something like asexual.
So basically gays are good, and are okay to
be around kids, as long as they don’t have
anything close to a sex life.
Celibate gays are fine.
The gays who are willing to keep hiding in
the closet are fine.
Dumbledore DID want to change the world, just
like Grindelwald.
When he was younger.
But he's grown up, and matured out of that
mindset.
He doesn’t want to change things anymore.
Everything is fine as it is.
He has his cushy job at Hogwarts, why call
for a revolution now?
Of course I’m not saying that we should
be siding with a character who, up until a
few days ago, was a wizarding allegory for
Adolf Hister.
But it is interesting that it seems to be
rich wizards and wizard cops who are most
stressed out about the possibility of Grindelwald
coming to power, and not your average witches
and wizards.
We don’t really hear from them except when
we see them cheering on Grindelwald and carrying
him around like a conquering hero.
So the spoken message and the visual message
seem disjointed.
We’re meant to hate and fear him, like Voldemort,
but it's not the 1990s anymore.
The world has changed a lot.
People are much more aware of “revolutionary”
thinking like trans rights, taxing the rich,
and getting rid of income inequality.
The heroes of today’s world are calling
for the change we need, while the villains
are calling for the conservation of current
values, or even moving backward — regression.
So I just find it interesting that it's the
heroes of this film who want everything to
stay the same, and the villains calling for
change.